VAULT-45468: add page for RAR (#2735)
hashicorp/web-unified-docs: content/vault/v2.x/content/docs/concepts/native-ai-agent-support/rich-authorization-requests.mdx

---

# Rich authorization requests (RAR)

@include 'alerts/enterprise-only.mdx'

@include 'alerts/beta.mdx'

Rich Authorization Requests (RAR) provide fine-grained authorization constraints
for OAuth 2.0 tokens used with Vault's [AI agent support](/vault/docs/concepts/native-ai-agent-support/overview).
RAR embeds detailed access control rules directly in JWT tokens,
enabling path-level and parameter-level restrictions beyond what standard ACL
policies provide.

[RFC 9396](https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/rfc9396) defines RAR and
extends OAuth 2.0 to support complex authorization scenarios. In Vault, RAR
constraints work alongside ACL policies to narrow permissions without ever expanding
them.

## How RAR works with Vault

When a client presents an OAuth JWT containing RAR constraints in the
`authorization_details` claim, Vault evaluates both the entity's ACL policies
and the RAR constraints. For a request to succeed:

1. The request path and operation must match at least one RAR constraint
2. The entity's ACL policies must permit the operation

> 3. Any parameter-level constraints in the RAR must be satisfied

Reviewer: Based on the [style guide](https://github.com/hashicorp/web-unified-docs/blob/main/docs/style-guide/markdown/fonts-and-formats.md#use-1-for-every-item-in-an-ordered-list), use `1.` for numbered list.

```suggestion
1. The entity's ACL policies must permit the operation
1. Any parameter-level constraints in the RAR must be satisfied
```
